The Joe Rogan experience pretty it's hard because people have other
motives like emotion, tribalism, things like that.
Well, people find great comfort in these belief systems.
It gives them sort of a I've often said that it gives them some sort of like a
scaffolding for their, just their structure of the world,
their ethics, their morals.
They can use religion as some sort of a mechanism to help them get by
something that they can climb on to
ease some of the confusion of the unknown.
I'm sure that's true.
But I don't understand why anybody therefore thinks that therefore the religion
is true.
Why would you think that because it provides you with a scaffold you can climb
on that makes it true.
I could understand you erecting a scaffold that was say gymnastics or, or,
or a certain diet or something like that, but a belief about the universe.
That's either going to be true or not,
and it doesn't make it true just because it's comforting or provides you with a
scaffold to climb on.
Well, it's almost like it's a spiritual system,
like a placebo effect, like a spiritual placebo effect.
And by believing that this is true,
it gives you this comfort and allows you to condense your thoughts into a,
a better path.
The placebo effect of course, is very real and doctors know about it,
but did you know that the placebo effect works?
Even if the patient is told it's a placebo? Yes. That I don't get. I mean,
that's incredible.
Yeah. It's very strange. Well,
it's sometimes people doing things and knowing that they're doing things,
gives them this sort of feeling of, uh, of momentum, of accomplishment,
of, of progress. And I think, uh,
so many people are just so adrift and don't have focus that even
just telling them, Hey, we're going to,
you're going to be a part of this program and this program to treat X,
Y disease, whatever it is. And here's this thing, like, just,
just focusing on it.
I think the main reason why so many people believe in homeopathy,
which not only doesn't work,
but cannot work is the placebo effect that they, um,
they w it's part of they're going to get better. Anyway, of course,
but it's also the placebo effect that at the homeopathic,
I wouldn't say doctor homeopathic practitioner gives them a
nonsensical piece of medicine and they believe it's going to work.
And so it does. And so the placebo effect is important. Um,
the CFI center for inquiry has actually got a lawsuit going on at the moment
against pharmaceutical, um, shops,
selling homeopathic remedies, alongside, uh,
genuine ones. We can't stop them, actually selling homeopathic remedies.
What we can try and do is stop them,
putting them on the same shelf as though there's no difference between them.
I didn't even notice he got up. Sorry.
He's my best friend. How dare you,
Marshall? Um, yeah, that, that, I forgot where we were.
Well, sorry. You were, you were talking about inter sectional.
Hi Marshall, come here. I don't want them to get no, I know he wants to flag.
Yeah. I just don't want him to get in the way. Um, so you,
you were saying that you realize that everybody has their problems.
It doesn't matter if you're black or white.
Yeah. I really learned a lot. Those women, it was run by lesbians. They,
they like taught me some that stuck with me my whole life,
like cluttered room cluttered mind. I loved that one. It was basically like,
they were very strict,
but what happened was I learned how to be a really crafty drug addict.
So I was like, well, as long as my room is clean, I don't have a problem.
Cause I came, I came to LA at 19 or 20, I guess.
And this was like 2000 and I started, um, uh,
internee at this website called buddy head.
It was like this old music website and they were all punk and they had the
number one gossip site for music in town at the time.
And everybody was obsessed with this, um, with this website.
And then.
It's a distraction here. He seems like a little bit restless, buddy. Come here,
come here, pal. Come here.
He's so cute though. I can't bear to kick him out.
Come on, come on, come on. Say hi to people,
ladies and gentlemen is the sweetest dog in the world. Seriously.
You've been asking for him to be on the show forever. He just gonna,
he'll do the rounds. He'll go to you. What are you doing in here?
He'll go to you. Who get pat and Jamie he'll get pat,
but I just don't want them to interrupt the conversation.
It's a little bit of a distraction. That's fine. I'm all over that.
I don't want him to yank any wires out either. Hey,
it's going to Jamie now told you. That's what he does.
There's.
Such like love sleds and some.
Amazing Goldens or love sponges.
Or she'll go sleep from one bed to another to another. She gets all the love.
He's not allowed to sleep in beds. Yeah, but he's, uh,
he's very loved. It's just that I've never had a dog like that before.
They're just so different than any other dog I've ever had. Cause it's just,
he's just a constant friendly lover. You know, he never gets annoyed with you.
He never wants to go lie down, but he's always happy when you say hi to him,
you just start talking is.
Unconditional. Yeah. I mean.
It's crazy that those used to be wolves. Turn them into this thing.
I know.
For average people, right? Uh, this saccadic, uh,
that's not your primary threat.
Your primary threats are these bulk collection programs.
Your primary threat is the fact that your phone is constantly squawking to these
cell phone towers.
It's doing all of these things because we leave our phones in a state that is
constantly on you're constantly connected, right? Uh, airplane mode, uh,
doesn't even turn off wifi really anymore. It just turns off the cellular modem.
Um, but the whole idea is we need to identify the problem.
And the central problem with smartphone use today is you have no idea what the
hell it's doing at any given time. Like the phone has the screen off.
You don't know what it's connected to.
You don't know how frequently it's doing it. Uh,
apple and iOS unfortunately makes it impossible to see, uh,
what kind of network connections are constantly made on the device and to
intermediate them going. I don't want Facebook to be able to talk right now.
You know, I want Google to be able to talk right now. I just want my, uh,
secure messenger app to be able to talk.
I just want my weather app to be able to talk,
but I just checked my weather and now I'm done with it.
So I don't want that to be able to talk anymore.
And we need to be able to make these intelligent decisions on not just an app by
app basis, but a connection by connection basis, right? You want,
let's say you use Facebook because you know,
for whatever judgment we have, a lot of people might do it.
You want it to be able to connect to Facebook's content servers.
You want to be able to message a friend.
You want to be able to download a photograph or whatever,
but you don't want it to be able to talk to an ad server.
You don't want it to talk to an analytics server.
That's monitoring your behavior, right?
You don't want to talk to all these third party things because Facebook cramps
their garbage and almost every app that you download and you don't even know
what's happening because you can't see. Right.
And this is the problem with the data collection used today is there is an
industry that is built on keeping this invisible. Uh,
at what we need to do is we need to make the activities of our
devices, whether it's a phone, whether it's computer, whatever, uh,
more visible and understandable to the average person and then give them control
over it. So like,
if you could see your phone right now and at the very center of is a little
green icon, that's your handset or it's a picture of your face, whatever.
And then you see all these little spokes coming off of it.
That's every app that your phone is talking to right now,
or every app that is active on your phone right now and all the hosts that it's
connecting to. And you can see right now once every three seconds,
your phone is checking into Facebook and you could just poke that app. And then,
boom, it's not talking to Facebook anymore.
Facebook's not allowed Facebook speaking privileges have been revoked. Right?
We'll do that. Uh, I think I have, um,
a very peculiar biology that demands a certain amount of exertion. Yeah,
me personally.
And I have friends like that. I mean, I, you know, I have lots of friends like,
man, I, if I don't run every day, I feel like.
I'm like running is very addictive though. I feel fine. Yeah. You get,
you get used to that. There's a high that you get from running.
That's really interesting. And any, um, long-term cardiovascular exercise,
you get this it's like we did. W last, last October,
we did the sober October thing. We had this crazy fitness challenge.
So all of us were doing cardio, like five hours a day,
like really crazy amounts of cardio.
And one of the things that Tom's a girl and I both agreed on is like the,
the amount of internal chatter dissipates to zero.
Like you have no anxiety. It goes,
I didn't realize I had any anxiety until that happened. And then I was like,
God, it goes to zero.
It goes to nothing like when you do like five hours on a treadmill
or you just running, just run. When you, when it's done, man,
there's this like peace of mind that comes with that, this,
uh, release of endorphins. That's incredibly addictive.
Cause that feeling is so pleasing. So it's not that it doesn't,
it doesn't feel good to get out of bed and then to just push when you don't
want to, but the end result feels amazing. It does.
So I wonder if there's any research, uh,
looking into whether that effect happens universally,
because I've worked out, I've run. There were times in my life.
I never, I've never gotten a runner's high. Never I get my teeth hurt.
My knees hurt my back hurts. I feel my brain, you know,
bouncing around in my skull, you know, I'm half a mile into it and I'm like,
this, this doesn't feel right.
You have to get in shape first. That's a big part of it. It's not,
it's not that simple. It's like for me, uh,
I never really got into running. Um,
but I like the first time I really did any serious running. I, my,
my friend cam Haynes had a 5k, which is what is that three miles,
something like that. Um, and I didn't run at all in preparation for it.
And when I ran the 5k, I was like, Jesus Christ, this is hard.
Like I didn't have, there was no good feeling at all. You know,
it's running on concrete and in Vegas. It's gross,
Vegas smell and sin in the air. And, uh, but when it was over, I was like,
okay, obviously, uh, I'm not, I'm in good shape,
but not in good running shape at all.
So I should probably get in shape for this.
And then I started running and then when I got into running and particularly
running Hills,
then I started feeling it once I kind of got in that kind of shape.
And then when the, you know, when the, the workouts are over,
like I w I run all the time now and when it's over, I just have this.
Yeah. You and Marshall are doing your thing. That's great. Yeah.
LA. And he loves it too. There's no crazy bonding experience with that dog.
You know, when, cause he loves it.
Now, many things happened after that, that I was able to use that.
Like I became, uh,
when I was stuck on a beautiful mind because it wasn't cinematic.
I thought, well, how can I make it cinematic?
I thought Veronica Denegri she lived in an alternate reality. Well,
that's exactly in voluntarily what a schizophrenia has to do.
They live in alternate realities. So in the movie,
a beautiful mind to make it really compelling.
We started in an alternate reality and made it a thriller and realized,
oh my God, there's this apifany. And you realize that was not even reality.
Right. And, and that's what blew people's minds.
And that's why the movie kind of worked because it was,
it drew you in so deeply into this character that it became like this
subjective experience that every audience,
every audience member could feel like the pain of that and the insanity of what
that must feel like.
That was another brilliant movie. I love that movie. When you say,
make it cinematic, what, what do you mean by that? Exactly.
Well, Ron and I realized that Ron Howard who directed it and won an Oscar,
um, and he,
we realized that in order to make it really interesting,
you have to see, you have to understand the mind of a schizophrenia.
So therefore you have to see somebody's mind.
How do you see somebody's mind other than just graphically, you know, or,
you know, like through graphic design. And, um,
and we thought that's not very interesting, you know,
like the insertion of graphic designer, voiceover narration,
that makes it kind of a documentary. So, but we thought like, but if you could,
if you could have an entire story kind of with the military and
paranoia and all that,
that's exactly one of the dimensions or realities of a schizophrenia it's
mind. So you get to film it with other actors and other people. And that's,
that was, that's why, I mean, when I say cinematic,
so basically when you're seeing the twenty-five minutes of living in this
alternate reality with ed Harris and all that stuff, craziness,
it blows your mind as an audience. And then you reflect later like, wow,
that wasn't even real. And wow,
that guy is that guy really going to come back and, you know,
you make it seamlessly cinematic with the rest of the
narrative, him, him trained to cope with schizophrenia itself.
So it becomes the merging of an alternate reality and actual
reality.
And the actual reality is when he's you watch him in that level of pain and just
trying to survive, you know, like cope with meds and the wife.
And, and then, then we, we, we, we found the way to bake it,
you know, kind of work triumphantly because it was love.
That was the most powerful force.
It was that one person decided to stay with this other one person, the wife,
Alicia, stay with John Nash.